.TH x3d-toggle 1 "2026-02-28" "x3d-toggle 1.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
x3d-toggle \- control AMD 3D V-Cache Performance Optimizer Preference and related daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B x3d-toggle
.RI " <command> [args]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
x3d-toggle is a small privileged helper that writes a preferred mode to the
kernel sysfs node for AMD 3D V-Cache capable systems and provides a few
utility commands for configuration and diagnostics. The program is intended
to be invoked via PolicyKit (for example with \fBpkexec\fP) from desktop
frontends or user services.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B cache
Set the hardware preference to favor 3D V-Cache ("Rabbit Mode"). Requires root.
.TP
.B frequency
Set the hardware preference to favor raw frequency ("Cheetah Mode"). Requires root.
.TP
.B auto
Reset to the default scheduler behavior ("Elk Mode"). Requires root.
.TP
.B get
Print the current effective mode (reads the sysfs node).
.TP
.B check-load [threshold]
Return success (exit 0) when the system compute load is at-or-above the
specified threshold percent (integer 0..100). Defaults to 50.
.TP
.B stress [seconds]
Run a multi-threaded synthetic CPU workload simulating a 100% total core load. 
Used to test polling logic and threshold triggers. Range: 1-300 seconds.
.TP
.B set \fIkey value [config_path]\fR
Atomically write a configuration key/value pair to the config file. Supported
keys: \fBpolling\fR (seconds), \fBcompute\fR (percent), \fBgame\fR (mode),
and \fBlogmode\fR (one of: \fBstdout\fR, \fBfile\fR, \fBnone\fR).
.TP
.B log-on [config_path]
Write \fBlogmode=stdout\fR to the config file (requires root).
.TP
.B log-off [config_path]
Write \fBlogmode=none\fR to the config file (requires root).
.TP
.B log-file [config_path]
Write \fBlogmode=file\fR to the config file (requires root).
.TP
.B help, -h, --help
Show brief help and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The utility returns 0 on success for queries such as \fBget\fP and when
operations succeed. Failure to write the sysfs node, invalid arguments, or
insufficient privileges return non-zero.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Set Rabbit Mode (prefer V-Cache)
.RS
.nf
  pkexec x3d-toggle cache
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Query current mode
.RS
.nf
  x3d-toggle get
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Check whether compute load exceeds 75%%
.RS
.nf
  if x3d-toggle check-load 75; then
    echo "High compute load"
  fi
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Update polling interval in system config
.RS
.nf
  pkexec x3d-toggle set polling 5 /etc/x3d-toggle.conf
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Enable stdout logging (persisted)
.RS
.nf
  pkexec x3d-toggle log-on /etc/x3d-toggle.conf
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Enable file logging
.RS
.nf
  pkexec x3d-toggle log-file
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Test automated switch detection logic
.RS
.nf
  x3d-toggle stress 45
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Developer: force GUI tools activation
.RS
.nf
  X3D_DEV_MODE=1 x3d-toggle-gui
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/x3d-toggle.conf
Default configuration file (key=value format).
.TP
/sys/devices/platform/AMDI*/amd_x3d_mode
Kernel sysfs node(s) used to set/read the preferred mode.
.SH SECURITY
Writes to the kernel sysfs node and to system configuration require root
privileges; the project expects frontends to use PolicyKit (for example
\fBpkexec\fP) rather than setuid binaries. The utility always records
operation audit messages to the system log via \fBsyslog(3)\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pkexec (1),
.BR systemd (1),
.BR syslog (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Pyrotiger <65628850+pyrotiger@users.noreply.github.com>
